This directory contains source code for students to use with the
book *Programming Languages: Build, Prove, and Compire*.
This distribution does *not* include solutions to many exercises
(garbage collection, type checking, unification, etc), so the
interpreters are incomplete.  Binary code for complete interpreters
should be available from your instructor.

The interpreters, which are written in C and in ML, are available in
two flavors.

  * The `bare' flavor is bare, uncommented code extracted from the
    book.  Code chunks are marked with their name and page numbers
    using comments in the code.  

  * The `commented' flavor is the same code, also extracted from the
    book, but with comments taken from the book.  These comments are
    extracted automatically, so the results aren't always what you
    would hope for, but some people may find them useful.  

Both flavors of code have been forced to fit into 80 columns using
automated techniques, which sometimes split lines that are not split
in the book.  Some lines of code, particularly in the garbage
collector, contain a comment like /* OMIT */.  This comment marks code
that would be distracting to include in the book text but which may be
useful for doing some of the problems.

Each of the two flavors appears in a directory of the same name, and
each of these directories contains one subdirectory per interpreter.

  impcore       Impcore implemented in C (Chapter 2)
  uscheme       uScheme implemented in C (Chapter 3)
  uscheme-trace uScheme in C, with tracing code (an exercise in Chapter 3)
  uscheme-copy  uScheme with support for copying collection (Chapter 5)
  uscheme-ms    uScheme with support for mark/sweep collection (Chapter 5)
  uscheme-ml    uScheme implemented in ML (Chapter 6)
  uschemeplus   uScheme+ implemented in C (Chapter 4)
  timpcore      Typed Impcore implemented in ML (Chapter 7)
  tuscheme      Typed uScheme implemented in ML (Chapter 7)
  nml           nano-ML (Chapter 8)
  usmalltalk    uSmalltalk (Chapter 11)
  uprolog       uProlog (Chapter 12)

Each interpreter comes with a Makefile that does something, although
in some cases the Makefile may be fairly specialized to the
environment at Tufts and so may be less than useful to you.  In this
environment we compile the interpreters using gcc, Moscow ML, and
mlton.

There are some additional subdirectories

  impcore-with-locals    Impcore with a parser modified for local variables
                         (bare directory only)
  modules                In a future edition, ML interpreters in modular form


The top-level directories are organized as follows:

  bare          Bare interpreters
  commented     Commented interpreters
  examples      A few example programs extracted from the text
  transcripts   Transcripts from some chapters.  These may be useful
                for cutting and pasting code for some exercises.
